---
content_type: page
is_media_gallery: true
title: Lecture Videos
uid: 809ebf7c-44bf-b36e-8786-306747d7e32f
---

This page presents lecture videos for most class sessions. Videos for Sessions 9, 13–14, 17–20, and 22 are not available.

Notes accompanying each video (except for Sessions 1 and 25) are linked on the 'Lecture Notes' tab below the video player. The notes are also presented separately on the [Lecture Notes]({{< baseurl >}}/pages/lecture-notes) page.

Student-written MATLAB® code displayed in some videos is courtesy of the students and used with permission. 

Disclaimer: These lecture videos were recorded with a web videoconferencing system. The recording quality is the best available from this source.{{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-1-course-introduction-and-ordinary-differential-equations-odes" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 1: Course introduction and ordinary differential equations (ODEs)" description="Description: This lecture covers the course organization, as well as an introduction to numerical integration of ordinary differential equations. Included in the video is a problem for students to solve by discretizing ODEs. Instructors: Qiqi Wang and Karen Willcox Note: There are no slides to accompany this lecture. The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/B4ueTZZZG0E/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-2-numerical-integration-of-odes-approximating-time-derivative" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 2: Numerical Integration of ODEs: Approximating time derivative" description="Description: This lecture covers the sources of error when solving an ODE and introduces accuracy, including forward Euler and midpoint rule.  The lecture introduces a contest in which students work in pairs to solve the local order of accuracy. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Yyb7I-n6rZI/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-3-numerical-integration-of-odes-accuracy-and-a-pendulum-problem" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 3: Numerical Integration of ODEs: Accuracy and a pendulum problem" description="Description: This session reviews the previous class on accuracy and discusses the student contest answers for the local order of accuracy problem. The session also implements a scheme for a real-life problem. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/BzQNgoTu5C4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-4-numerical-integration-of-odes-stability-and-a-ballistics-problem" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 4: Numerical Integration of ODEs: Stability and a ballistics problem" description="Description: This video begins with a review of the assigned readings and the previous class, and then introduces consistency and stability.  Students work to solve a ballistics (cannonball trajectory) problem using ODEs. Instructors: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/DZtkqqY2Jn4/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-5-numerical-integration-of-odes-nonlinear-systems" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 5: Numerical Integration of ODEs: Nonlinear Systems" description="Description: The video reviews accuracy and stability concepts, and then covers nonlinear systems in detail. Instructors: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/nKNFP1PiIdo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-6-numerical-integration-of-odes-stiffness-implicit-methods-runge-kutta" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 6: Numerical Integration of ODEs: Stiffness, Implicit Methods, Runge-Kutta" description="Description: This video begins with questions from the students. These are followed by a discussion of stiffness, explicit and implicit schemes using an in-class example. Finally, the video introduces Runge-Kutta methods. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/8ulQDwKTBOc/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-7-numerical-methods-of-partial-differential-equations-introduction" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 7: Numerical Methods of Partial Differential Equations: Introduction" description="Description: This session introduces partial differential equations and focuses on conservation law. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/Hn6f6tCKQwE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-8-numerical-methods-of-pdes-finite-difference-methods-1" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 8: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Finite Difference Methods 1" description="Description: After a discussion of ODEs compared to PDEs, this session covers finite difference approximation and second order derivatives. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source. Note: There is no video for the next class, Session 9." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/A-qap-PTmgo/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-10-numerical-methods-of-pdes-finite-volume-methods-1" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 10: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Finite Volume Methods 1" description="Description: This session introduces finite volume methods, comparing to finite difference. After discussing scalar conservation laws, and shockwaves, the session introduces an example of upwinding. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/6hewlsfqltY/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-11-numerical-methods-of-pdes-finite-volume-methods-2" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 11: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Finite Volume Methods 2" description="Description: This session continues discussion of finite volume methods, and works through an example of upwinding using a traffic jam simulation. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/_xOt_kiBPbE/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-12-numerical-methods-of-pdes-finite-volume-in-2d-and-midterm-review" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 12: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Finite Volume in 2D and Midterm Review" description="Description: This session introduces finite volume methods in two dimensions and Eigenvalue stability, then reviews the advantages and disadvantages of the methods covered thus far in the course before the midterm exam. Instructor: Qiqi Wang The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source. NOTE: Videos for the next two classes, Sessions 13–14, are not available." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/E9Wx6QaGyR0/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-15-numerical-methods-of-pdes-collocation-and-weighted-residuals" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 15: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Collocation and Weighted Residuals" description="Description: This session continues exploring the finite element method for PDEs. Professor Willcox works through a model problem and discusses the collocation method and method of weighted residuals. Instructor: Karen Willcox The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/le8rBOOV-Xs/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-16-numerical-methods-of-pdes-finite-element-method-1" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 16: Numerical Methods of PDEs: Finite Element Method 1" description="Description: This abbreviated session begins to introduce the finite element method for 1-dimenional diffusion, including key ideas and its history. Due to technical difficulties, the video ends after the audio fails at around 14:45. Instructor: Karen Willcox The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source. NOTE: Videos for the next several classes, Sessions 17–20, are not available." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ZyoZukr_sUA/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-21-probabilistic-methods-optimization-statistical-sampling-methods" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 21: Probabilistic Methods & Optimization: Statistical sampling methods" description="Description: This video covers statistical sampling methods and includes bootstrapping, variance reduction methods, importance sampling and sensitivity analysis. Instructor: Karen Willcox The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source. NOTE: There is no video for the next class, Session 22." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/ruZ33P1ICRs/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-23-probabilistic-methods-optimization-intro-to-design-optimization-i" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 23: Probabilistic Methods & Optimization: Intro to design optimization I" description="Description: This session discusses the basics of a design optimization problem, as well as design optimization algorithms, and computing gradients. Instructor: Karen Willcox The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/FAKkYN2k_uk/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-24-probabilistic-methods-optimization-intro-to-design-optimization-ii" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 24: Probabilistic Methods & Optimization: Intro to design optimization II" description="Description: This session continues the discussion of design optimization, including unconstrained optimization algorithms. The instructor then covers computing gradients, the 1D search, surrogate models and least squares fitting a response surface. Instructor: Karen Willcox The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/1SY0C9IfyeU/default.jpg" >}} {{< video-gallery-item href="/resources/session-25-probabilistic-methods-optimization-final-exam-review" section="Lecture Videos" title="Session 25: Probabilistic Methods & Optimization: Final exam review" description="Description: Professor Willcox reviews important topics before the final exam pertaining to numerical methods of PDEs and probabilistic methods and optimization. Instructor: Karen Willcox Note: There are no slides to accompany this lecture. The recording quality of this video is the best available from the source." thumbnail="https://img.youtube.com/vi/5sq9vxCG_dQ/default.jpg" >}}